docs/overview.md, before:

# Sylo Network Phase 2 Smart Contracts

**Protocol and Economic Incentives For Decentralized Communications
Infrastructure**

Paul Freeman            <paul@sylo.io> </br>
John Carlo San Pedro    <john@sylo.io> </br>
Joshua Dawes            <josh@sylo.io> </br>

## Table of Contents ###########################################

* [Introduction and Background](#introduction-and-background)
* [Probabilistic Micropayments](#probabilistic-micropayments)
  * [Micropayment Tickets](#micropayment-tickets)
* [The Event Relay Protocol](#the-event-relay-protocol)
  * [Nodes](#nodes)
* [Staking](#staking)
  * [Delegated Staking](#delegated-staking)
  * [Scanning for a node](#scanning-for-a-node)
* [Epochs](#epochs)
* [Rewards](#rewards)
* [Ticket decay with time](#ticket-decay-with-time)



## Introduction and Background ###########################################

Sylo Nodes are an application that anyone can run, to help provide network
services to Sylo users in a truly private, fully decentralised way.

Sylo Nodes provide Incentivised Event Relay to applications and users of the
Sylo Network.

Network traffic is allocated to Nodes based on the amount of Sylo Tokens staked.
This information is saved on-chain in a Stake Directory.

Sylo Tickets are the payment mechanism on the network; they are used to pay for
very small units of work, off-chain.

An Epoch is the main unit of time in the Sylo Network, measured as a number of
on-chain blocks.

The Sylo Network is currently in [phase two](spec.md#phase-two) of its
deployment.


## Probabilistic Micropayments ###########################################

Sylo Tickets are probabilistic micropayments used for rewarding Sylo Nodes for
their work. Because Sylo Nodes can be run by anybody, they need a financial
incentive to perform relay - the Sylo Network cannot rely on altruism and still
provide a reliable, high quality service.

A single relay is so inexpensive that the blockchain transaction costs
associated with paying per message would be unreasonably high. Because of this,
we need a way to exchange value for every relay performed, without relying on an
on-chain transaction each time.



### Micropayment Tickets

Instead of transferring currency every transaction, Sylo Tickets are a
probabilistic payment. A ticket is sent along with every transaction, but not
every ticket can be redeemed for currency.

Tickets only have a small percentage chance of winning, which means that most
Tickets are not winning. As a result, the vast majority of relay transactions
can occur without an on-chain transfer of funds. Neither the sender nor the
receiver of a ticket knows whether a ticket is a winning ticket until the relay
it is paying for is completed.

If the Ticket wins, it is worth it's full face value, and can be submitted
on-chain to claim that full payout for the sender's funds in escrow. These funds
are locked in escrow for a substantial period of time, to ensure that Tickets
redeemed in the future will still have funds available to redeem winnings from.

In addition, the owner of the escrow must post penalty escrow, which is burned
if the payment escrow is ever empty when a ticket is redeemed. This penalty
escrow prevents the owner of the escrow from emptying their own escrow balance
into another wallet, as a means of avoiding paying nodes for their work - an
attack known as front-running.

The value of a Ticket is it’s expected value: the Ticket's “face value” that is
paid out if it wins, multiplied by its probability of winning. By choosing
values of these two parameters, these probabilistic micropayment Tickets can be
used to pay for arbitrarily small units of work in a gas-efficient way.

## The Event Relay Protocol ###########################################


### Asynchronous Event Relay

Peer Alice wishes to send a packet to peer Bob via Bob’s node.

Both Alice and Bob use the Sylo network intermittently - in the worst case, they
may never be online at the same time as each other. This means that Alice is
unable to check in with Bob later, to ensure that her relays were delivered.
Alice needs a protocol that is "fire and forget" - once she has left a relay
request with Bob's node, Alice needs to be sure that the node will do it's best
to deliver her message to Bob, with no further input from her.

This means that Alice needs a trustless method of setting payment aside for
Bob's node, to be claimed once the relay is delivered. This is accomplished by
signing a ticket, which will pay out from money held in escrow in a smart
contract when the ticket is redeemed.

Alice also needs a way to release payment to Bob's node only once Bob has
received the relay packet. This is the difficult part, because Alice may never
have the opportunity to learn anything more about the outcome of her relay
request.


In reality, only two actors know when the relay packet has been delivered - Bob,
and Bob's node.

Bob's node cannot be trusted to be truthful about delivery, because it has a
financial incentive to lie, and claim payment for delivery without doing the
work. This is true in both the one-off case, and in the iterative game, where
the node’s optimal strategy is a mixed strategy that includes some cheating.

In general, Bob also cannot be trusted to unlock Alice’s payment for Bob's node.
Because Alice is sending to Bob, Bob and Alice may have some relationship with
one another, and so Bob is assumed to have some incentive to refuse to unlock
Alice's payment.

However, Bob only has one node - all of Bob’s relay traffic, from a variety of
peers, comes through that node. This gives Bob's node a mechanism to punish Bob
with, if Bob withholds payment - blacklisting.

By threatening to withhold Bob's future traffic as punishment for bad behavior,
Bob can be trusted to unlock Alice’s payment - the small incentive Bob has to
help any individual relay sender is outweighed by Bob's desire to remain in good
standing with his node.

This allows Bob to act as the service completion oracle. When Alice leaves a
relay request with Bob's node, it contains a secret from Alice that is encrypted
for Bob. Once Bob receives the relay, he decrypts the secret and passes it back
to the node, allowing the node to claim payment.


Blacklisting also prevents abuse in the case where Alice and Bob are the same
financial entity, with shared cost incentives. The goal in this case is to limit
the amount of free relay that Alice and Bob are able to extract from the
network. Bob's node is able to see which relays do not result in valid payment,
and adjust the reputation of both Alice and Bob accordingly. After a small
number of failures to deliver payment, Bob's node can blacklist Bob, and
decrease Alice’s reputation as a relay sender, eventually resulting in the node
ignoring relay requests from Alice altogether.

In the worst case attack, the attacker spins up many alternative receiving peers
(for free) that scan to a variety of different nodes, sending relay to each of
these peers in turn. This continues until Alice’s reputation has been “spent”
with all nodes on the network. With 100 nodes on the network, and 50 relays
worth of non-payment evidence required for the node to blacklist A (an allowance
for legitimate connection issues), this results in 5000 free relays before all
nodes will turn away Alice’s requests - about $0.00005 worth of relay, based on
monthly node operating costs and throughput.

After this, Alice’s escrow must be moved to another wallet to begin the process
again, which takes time for the escrow to unlock, and has an associated gas
cost. This gas cost puts an effective price on the “free” relay obtainable this
way, and makes the strategy of repeatedly spinning up new sending peers worse
than just paying for relay in the first place.


### Nodes

Sylo Nodes are an application that anyone can run on their own server, to help
provide network services to Sylo users in a truly private, fully decentralised
way. Sylo Nodes currently provide incentivised event relay and will provide
additional services in future.

Sylo Nodes are financially incentivized to provide and maintain good service.
For good service they receive payouts via Sylo Tickets at a service price, which
is set each epoch.

Sylo Nodes require Stake before they are eligible to receive work to do.

## Staking ###########################################
In order to be allocated work on the Sylo Network, Sylo Nodes must have SYLO
Tokens staked against them on-chain. These tokens are still owned by the person
who staked them, but are locked in a smart contract for a period of time.

Sylo Node runners provide Node Staking. Sylo users can stake toward Nodes via
Delegated Staking.

Using the total amount staked to Nodes across the Network, the Stake Directory
is updated each epoch. The Stake Directory is used by the stake-weighted scan
function for users to know which Node is assigned to which user.

Staking is important because it ensures that the owners of nodes have a
financial stake in the overall network. Staking ensures that node owners’
incentives align with the network as a whole - taking actions that add value to
the network adds value to their stake, and taking actions that harm the network
reduces the value of their stake.

Stakers can initiate the withdrawal of their stake at any time, but the stake is
locked in for a period of time before it is withdrawn, to ensure that
speculators cannot take short-term control of the network’s services in order to
manipulate them for profit.

Staking against a node does two things:
- It increases the amount of traffic that the node receives from the network,
  increasing that node’s income.
- It entitles the owner of the stake to a portion of the payout from each
  winning ticket that the node redeems.


### Delegated staking

A node can be staked by the Node’s owner, or by other holders of the SYLO token
- the latter is known as delegated staking.

- A percentage of every winning ticket is paid to the node owner first - the
  remaining payment is then shared among all stakers, delegated or not,  in
  proportion to the amount they have staked.

### Scanning for a node

When a Sylo Node has SYLO Token staked against it, this is recorded in the stake
directory.

The stake directory is an on-chain data structure that holds information about
which Sylo Nodes are staked to provide services in the Sylo Network, and how
much SYLO Token is staked against each node.

Any peer with access to the blockchain can see the full list of staked Sylo
Nodes, and use the stake directory to determine which node they are assigned to
for the current epoch, by a process known as scanning.


When a peer wants to identify their Sylo Node, they query the blockchain using a
“scan” function. This function takes the peer ID as input, and pseudo-randomly
assigns them a Sylo Node.

#### Scanning Process

The scan function does this using the following steps:

- Compute the hash of the peer ID of the recipient, concatenated with
  the current epoch number and the peer’s on-chain channel number.
  This hash can be mapped to a pseudo-random number between 0 and 1. It is
  unique to each peer, and changes each epoch.
- Multiply the total amount of stake in the stake tree by this random number, to
  produce a number between 0 and total_staked.
- Binary search the stake directory to find which node is associated with the
  number produced above, returning that node.


This scan function allows anyone who knows your peer ID to efficiently identify
your node for a given Epoch, and therefore identify which Sylo Node will accept
a relay message for you.

It also ensures that Sylo Nodes are able to tell when a relay message is
unlikely to be collected.  If the recipient scans to a different Sylo Node, then
it is unlikely that the recipient will come to this Node to collect it. This
incentivizes nodes to only provide services to peers that “scan” to them, and
incentivizes peers to only use their assigned node.

SYLO holders can alter their staking arrangements at any time - however, to
avoid peer’s Sylo Nodes changing mid-epoch, these changes only take effect on
the stake directory when the epoch changes. This ensures that a peer’s Sylo Node
is consistent for the entire epoch.

Because the stake directory is updated each epoch, and because the scan function
takes the epoch number as input to it’s hash, each peer’s Sylo Node is
randomized each epoch. This provides additional security against traffic
analysis, and ensures that nodes receive work in proportion to their stake over
the long run, regardless of epoch-by-epoch traffic variation.

## Epochs ###########################################

An epoch is the main unit of time in the Sylo Network, measured as a number of
on-chain blocks. At the start of each epoch, the stake directory is updated
based on all staking changes made during in the previous epoch, and each peer is
randomly reassigned to a Sylo Node.

Epochs have several benefits:

- It reduces the gas overhead of running the on-chain components of the network.
  In particular it allows for an [optimization of the reward distribution
  calculation](spec.md#reward-calculation-and-cumulative-reward-factor).
- It also provides a predictable time for changes to come into effect,
  simplifying the process of peers monitoring the network for changes - e.g.
  has my Node changed?


## Rewards ###########################################

Rewards gained from redeeming tickets are held in escrow, and will continue to
accumulate until either the Node or a delegated staker withdraws their rewards.
On redeeming a ticket, a portion of the reward is allocated to the Node itself
as direct payment for running the Event Relay service. The remaining portion is
then split amongst the Node's stakers on a pro-rata basis. Unclaimed staking
rewards are also automatically reconsidered as part of the Node's total stake,
bringing the Node additional network traffic until that stake is claimed.

Further detail of the staking rewards are calculated over multiple epochs can be
found in the [technical
specification](spec.md#reward-calculation-and-cumulative-reward-factor).

## Ticket decay with time ###########################################

To incentivize relays to be delivered as soon as possible, the mechanism that
pays out winning Sylo Tickets is modified, so that the [probability of a Ticket
winning decreases as the time since the relay request was made increases]
(spec.md#calculateWinningProbability).

The current blockchain block number is included in each Sylo Ticket when the
ticket is issued, and signed by the ticket's sender. This block number defines
the start of the ticket's valid duration, and is used to measure time. This
trustless measure of elapsed time is then used to modify the ticket's
probability of winning, decreasing the ticket's expected value as time goes on.

This creates a direct incentive for Sylo Nodes to perform relay as soon as
possible, to maximize their income from performing the service. It similarly
incentivizes them to invest in throughput and uptime improvements, so that they
can claim tickets as soon as possible, and earn more from the work that they do.

## Future Work

### Stake Redistribution

To further incentivize the performance of Nodes, a stake redistribution
mechanism will be introduced that punishes Nodes for failing to deliver
event relays.

Nodes that perform relay accumulate evidence of completing those relays, in the
form of cryptographically signed "receipts" from sending peers, which they keep
until the end of the epoch. These "receipts" can submitted to the blockchain
as proof of servicing relay requests. The number of receipts that must be
submitted will be proportional to the total stake against the Node, as more
stake indicates that the Node should be receiving more traffic. Failing to
submit sufficient evidence will result in the Node's stake being redistributed
to other high performing Nodes.

This mechanism is still a work in progress and will not be implemented for
phase two as the network traffic will not involve real users.

### Channels

Economic incentives should generally prevent any one Node from offering
a substandard relay service. However, in the case that a user wishes to
switch service providers, the user can set an on-chain integer value
known as a `channel`. Senders can retrieve the `channel` value for a user,
and include that value when computing the hash used in the
[scanning process](#scanning-process). The default channel value would be
0, but any non-zero value would result in a different Node being returned
from the scan output.

Commit message:

Update Seekers Documentation
Explained the requirement for a node to own a seeker, and how the requirment is enforced.

docs/overview.md, after:

# Sylo Network Phase 2 Smart Contracts

**Protocol and Economic Incentives For Decentralized Communications
Infrastructure**

Paul Freeman            <paul@sylo.io> </br>
John Carlo San Pedro    <john@sylo.io> </br>
Joshua Dawes            <josh@sylo.io> </br>

## Table of Contents ###########################################

* [Introduction and Background](#introduction-and-background)
* [Probabilistic Micropayments](#probabilistic-micropayments)
  * [Micropayment Tickets](#micropayment-tickets)
* [The Event Relay Protocol](#the-event-relay-protocol)
  * [Nodes](#nodes)
* [Staking](#staking)
  * [Delegated Staking](#delegated-staking)
  * [Scanning for a node](#scanning-for-a-node)
* [Epochs](#epochs)
* [Rewards](#rewards)
* [Ticket decay with time](#ticket-decay-with-time)



## Introduction and Background ###########################################

Sylo Nodes are an application that anyone can run, to help provide network
services to Sylo users in a truly private, fully decentralised way.

Sylo Nodes provide Incentivised Event Relay to applications and users of the
Sylo Network.

Network traffic is allocated to Nodes based on the amount of Sylo Tokens staked.
This information is saved on-chain in a Stake Directory.

Sylo Tickets are the payment mechanism on the network; they are used to pay for
very small units of work, off-chain.

An Epoch is the main unit of time in the Sylo Network, measured as a number of
on-chain blocks.

The Sylo Network is currently in [phase two](spec.md#phase-two) of its
deployment.


## Probabilistic Micropayments ###########################################

Sylo Tickets are probabilistic micropayments used for rewarding Sylo Nodes for
their work. Because Sylo Nodes can be run by anybody, they need a financial
incentive to perform relay - the Sylo Network cannot rely on altruism and still
provide a reliable, high quality service.

A single relay is so inexpensive that the blockchain transaction costs
associated with paying per message would be unreasonably high. Because of this,
we need a way to exchange value for every relay performed, without relying on an
on-chain transaction each time.



### Micropayment Tickets

Instead of transferring currency every transaction, Sylo Tickets are a
probabilistic payment. A ticket is sent along with every transaction, but not
every ticket can be redeemed for currency.

Tickets only have a small percentage chance of winning, which means that most
Tickets are not winning. As a result, the vast majority of relay transactions
can occur without an on-chain transfer of funds. Neither the sender nor the
receiver of a ticket knows whether a ticket is a winning ticket until the relay
it is paying for is completed.

If the Ticket wins, it is worth it's full face value, and can be submitted
on-chain to claim that full payout for the sender's funds in escrow. These funds
are locked in escrow for a substantial period of time, to ensure that Tickets
redeemed in the future will still have funds available to redeem winnings from.

In addition, the owner of the escrow must post penalty escrow, which is burned
if the payment escrow is ever empty when a ticket is redeemed. This penalty
escrow prevents the owner of the escrow from emptying their own escrow balance
into another wallet, as a means of avoiding paying nodes for their work - an
attack known as front-running.

The value of a Ticket is it’s expected value: the Ticket's “face value” that is
paid out if it wins, multiplied by its probability of winning. By choosing
values of these two parameters, these probabilistic micropayment Tickets can be
used to pay for arbitrarily small units of work in a gas-efficient way.

## The Event Relay Protocol ###########################################


### Asynchronous Event Relay

Peer Alice wishes to send a packet to peer Bob via Bob’s node.

Both Alice and Bob use the Sylo network intermittently - in the worst case, they
may never be online at the same time as each other. This means that Alice is
unable to check in with Bob later, to ensure that her relays were delivered.
Alice needs a protocol that is "fire and forget" - once she has left a relay
request with Bob's node, Alice needs to be sure that the node will do it's best
to deliver her message to Bob, with no further input from her.

This means that Alice needs a trustless method of setting payment aside for
Bob's node, to be claimed once the relay is delivered. This is accomplished by
signing a ticket, which will pay out from money held in escrow in a smart
contract when the ticket is redeemed.

Alice also needs a way to release payment to Bob's node only once Bob has
received the relay packet. This is the difficult part, because Alice may never
have the opportunity to learn anything more about the outcome of her relay
request.


In reality, only two actors know when the relay packet has been delivered - Bob,
and Bob's node.

Bob's node cannot be trusted to be truthful about delivery, because it has a
financial incentive to lie, and claim payment for delivery without doing the
work. This is true in both the one-off case, and in the iterative game, where
the node’s optimal strategy is a mixed strategy that includes some cheating.

In general, Bob also cannot be trusted to unlock Alice’s payment for Bob's node.
Because Alice is sending to Bob, Bob and Alice may have some relationship with
one another, and so Bob is assumed to have some incentive to refuse to unlock
Alice's payment.

However, Bob only has one node - all of Bob’s relay traffic, from a variety of
peers, comes through that node. This gives Bob's node a mechanism to punish Bob
with, if Bob withholds payment - blacklisting.

By threatening to withhold Bob's future traffic as punishment for bad behavior,
Bob can be trusted to unlock Alice’s payment - the small incentive Bob has to
help any individual relay sender is outweighed by Bob's desire to remain in good
standing with his node.

This allows Bob to act as the service completion oracle. When Alice leaves a
relay request with Bob's node, it contains a secret from Alice that is encrypted
for Bob. Once Bob receives the relay, he decrypts the secret and passes it back
to the node, allowing the node to claim payment.


Blacklisting also prevents abuse in the case where Alice and Bob are the same
financial entity, with shared cost incentives. The goal in this case is to limit
the amount of free relay that Alice and Bob are able to extract from the
network. Bob's node is able to see which relays do not result in valid payment,
and adjust the reputation of both Alice and Bob accordingly. After a small
number of failures to deliver payment, Bob's node can blacklist Bob, and
decrease Alice’s reputation as a relay sender, eventually resulting in the node
ignoring relay requests from Alice altogether.

In the worst case attack, the attacker spins up many alternative receiving peers
(for free) that scan to a variety of different nodes, sending relay to each of
these peers in turn. This continues until Alice’s reputation has been “spent”
with all nodes on the network. With 100 nodes on the network, and 50 relays
worth of non-payment evidence required for the node to blacklist A (an allowance
for legitimate connection issues), this results in 5000 free relays before all
nodes will turn away Alice’s requests - about $0.00005 worth of relay, based on
monthly node operating costs and throughput.

After this, Alice’s escrow must be moved to another wallet to begin the process
again, which takes time for the escrow to unlock, and has an associated gas
cost. This gas cost puts an effective price on the “free” relay obtainable this
way, and makes the strategy of repeatedly spinning up new sending peers worse
than just paying for relay in the first place.


### Nodes

Sylo Nodes are an application that anyone can run on their own server, to help
provide network services to Sylo users in a truly private, fully decentralised
way. Sylo Nodes currently provide incentivised event relay and will provide
additional services in future.

Sylo Nodes are financially incentivized to provide and maintain good service.
For good service they receive payouts via Sylo Tickets at a service price, which
is set each epoch.

Sylo Nodes require Stake before they are eligible to receive work to do.

## Staking ###########################################
In order to be allocated work on the Sylo Network, Sylo Nodes must have SYLO
Tokens staked against them on-chain. These tokens are still owned by the person
who staked them, but are locked in a smart contract for a period of time.

Sylo Node runners provide Node Staking. Sylo users can stake toward Nodes via
Delegated Staking.

Using the total amount staked to Nodes across the Network, the Stake Directory
is updated each epoch. The Stake Directory is used by the stake-weighted scan
function for users to know which Node is assigned to which user.

Staking is important because it ensures that the owners of nodes have a
financial stake in the overall network. Staking ensures that node owners’
incentives align with the network as a whole - taking actions that add value to
the network adds value to their stake, and taking actions that harm the network
reduces the value of their stake.

Stakers can initiate the withdrawal of their stake at any time, but the stake is
locked in for a period of time before it is withdrawn, to ensure that
speculators cannot take short-term control of the network’s services in order to
manipulate them for profit.

Staking against a node does two things:
- It increases the amount of traffic that the node receives from the network,
  increasing that node’s income.
- It entitles the owner of the stake to a portion of the payout from each
  winning ticket that the node redeems.


### Delegated staking

A node can be staked by the Node’s owner, or by other holders of the SYLO token
- the latter is known as delegated staking.

- A percentage of every winning ticket is paid to the node owner first - the
  remaining payment is then shared among all stakers, delegated or not,  in
  proportion to the amount they have staked.

### Scanning for a node

When a Sylo Node has SYLO Token staked against it, this is recorded in the stake
directory.

The stake directory is an on-chain data structure that holds information about
which Sylo Nodes are staked to provide services in the Sylo Network, and how
much SYLO Token is staked against each node.

Any peer with access to the blockchain can see the full list of staked Sylo
Nodes, and use the stake directory to determine which node they are assigned to
for the current epoch, by a process known as scanning.


When a peer wants to identify their Sylo Node, they query the blockchain using a
“scan” function. This function takes the peer ID as input, and pseudo-randomly
assigns them a Sylo Node.

#### Scanning Process

The scan function does this using the following steps:

- Compute the hash of the peer ID of the recipient, concatenated with
  the current epoch number and the peer’s on-chain channel number.
  This hash can be mapped to a pseudo-random number between 0 and 1. It is
  unique to each peer, and changes each epoch.
- Multiply the total amount of stake in the stake tree by this random number, to
  produce a number between 0 and total_staked.
- Binary search the stake directory to find which node is associated with the
  number produced above, returning that node.


This scan function allows anyone who knows your peer ID to efficiently identify
your node for a given Epoch, and therefore identify which Sylo Node will accept
a relay message for you.

It also ensures that Sylo Nodes are able to tell when a relay message is
unlikely to be collected.  If the recipient scans to a different Sylo Node, then
it is unlikely that the recipient will come to this Node to collect it. This
incentivizes nodes to only provide services to peers that “scan” to them, and
incentivizes peers to only use their assigned node.

SYLO holders can alter their staking arrangements at any time - however, to
avoid peer’s Sylo Nodes changing mid-epoch, these changes only take effect on
the stake directory when the epoch changes. This ensures that a peer’s Sylo Node
is consistent for the entire epoch.

Because the stake directory is updated each epoch, and because the scan function
takes the epoch number as input to it’s hash, each peer’s Sylo Node is
randomized each epoch. This provides additional security against traffic
analysis, and ensures that nodes receive work in proportion to their stake over
the long run, regardless of epoch-by-epoch traffic variation.

## Epochs ###########################################

An epoch is the main unit of time in the Sylo Network, measured as a number of
on-chain blocks. At the start of each epoch, the stake directory is updated
based on all staking changes made during in the previous epoch, and each peer is
randomly reassigned to a Sylo Node.

Epochs have several benefits:

- It reduces the gas overhead of running the on-chain components of the network.
  In particular it allows for an [optimization of the reward distribution
  calculation](spec.md#reward-calculation-and-cumulative-reward-factor).
- It also provides a predictable time for changes to come into effect,
  simplifying the process of peers monitoring the network for changes - e.g.
  has my Node changed?


## Rewards ###########################################

Rewards gained from redeeming tickets are held in escrow, and will continue to
accumulate until either the Node or a delegated staker withdraws their rewards.
On redeeming a ticket, a portion of the reward is allocated to the Node itself
as direct payment for running the Event Relay service. The remaining portion is
then split amongst the Node's stakers on a pro-rata basis. Unclaimed staking
rewards are also automatically reconsidered as part of the Node's total stake,
bringing the Node additional network traffic until that stake is claimed.

Further detail of the staking rewards are calculated over multiple epochs can be
found in the [technical
specification](spec.md#reward-calculation-and-cumulative-reward-factor).

## Ticket decay with time ###########################################

To incentivize relays to be delivered as soon as possible, the mechanism that
pays out winning Sylo Tickets is modified, so that the [probability of a Ticket
winning decreases as the time since the relay request was made increases]
(spec.md#calculateWinningProbability).

The current blockchain block number is included in each Sylo Ticket when the
ticket is issued, and signed by the ticket's sender. This block number defines
the start of the ticket's valid duration, and is used to measure time. This
trustless measure of elapsed time is then used to modify the ticket's
probability of winning, decreasing the ticket's expected value as time goes on.

This creates a direct incentive for Sylo Nodes to perform relay as soon as
possible, to maximize their income from performing the service. It similarly
incentivizes them to invest in throughput and uptime improvements, so that they
can claim tickets as soon as possible, and earn more from the work that they do.

## The Seekers ###########################################

In order to run a SYLO node, the user must own a Seeker. This requirement stems from the gamification
 of the network - the Seeker personifies the Node. The user can "activate their Seeker" by associating 
 it with a Node, allowing that Seeker to provide communications services and receive rewards.

In general, the user's wallet that contains the Seeker, and the user's wallet that runs the Node, 
will not be the same, because the user will not want to give their main wallet's key to the Node.

To address this limitation, a Node's wallet can claim indirect ownership of the Seeker by providing 
a proof of association. This proof is signed by the Seeker's wallet, and attests that the Node is 
allowed to use that Seeker to run. This fact is stored in the node's registry.

It is expected that users will trade/transfer ownership of the Seeker that is being used to run a 
Node before revoking the link between the Seeker and the Node in the Node's registry entry. This cannot 
easily be prevented because Seeker trades/transfers are initiated by the Seeker wallet, while registry
edits are made by the Node's wallet, which does not know of the transfer when it happens.

As a result, the Node is only required to have a Seeker in the registry when it joins an epoch, after which 
the Node can continue to participate during that epoch even after that Seeker has been transfered to another 
wallet. This ensures that:
1) The node can continue to claim rewards on work performed during the epoch, giving it an incentive to continue 
performing the service rather than leaving some relays unfulfilled.
2) The stake directory is static for the duration of the epoch, so that each receiver maps to the same node 
for the entire epoch.
However, the Node will be unable to join the following epoch until it registers another Seeker.


## Future Work

### Stake Redistribution

To further incentivize the performance of Nodes, a stake redistribution
mechanism will be introduced that punishes Nodes for failing to deliver
event relays.

Nodes that perform relay accumulate evidence of completing those relays, in the
form of cryptographically signed "receipts" from sending peers, which they keep
until the end of the epoch. These "receipts" can submitted to the blockchain
as proof of servicing relay requests. The number of receipts that must be
submitted will be proportional to the total stake against the Node, as more
stake indicates that the Node should be receiving more traffic. Failing to
submit sufficient evidence will result in the Node's stake being redistributed
to other high performing Nodes.

This mechanism is still a work in progress and will not be implemented for
phase two as the network traffic will not involve real users.

### Channels

Economic incentives should generally prevent any one Node from offering
a substandard relay service. However, in the case that a user wishes to
switch service providers, the user can set an on-chain integer value
known as a `channel`. Senders can retrieve the `channel` value for a user,
and include that value when computing the hash used in the
[scanning process](#scanning-process). The default channel value would be
0, but any non-zero value would result in a different Node being returned
from the scan output.
